# Topological Feature Selection: A Graph-Based Filter Feature Selection Approach

This repository contains the code to reproduce experiments and results discussed in the paper *Topological Feature Selection: A Graph-Based Filter Feature Selection Approach*. 

In this work, we present a novel unsupervised, graph-based filter feature selection technique which exploits the power of topologically constrained network representations. We model dependency structures among features using a family of chordal graphs (the Triangulated Maximally Filtered Graph) and we maximise the likelihood of features' relevance by studying their relative position inside the network. Such an approach presents three aspects that are particularly satisfactory compared to its alternatives: (i) it is highly tunable and easily adaptable to the nature of input data; (ii) it is fully explainable, maintaining, at the same time, a remarkable level of simplicity; (iii) it is computationally cheaper compared to its alternatives. We test our algorithm on 16 benchmark datasets from different applicative domains showing that it outperforms or matches the current state-of-the-art under heterogeneous evaluation conditions.

# Getting Started

1. Unpack the content of the two folders ```./data/entire_datasets.zip``` and ```./data/splitted_datasets.zip```. [**MANDATORY STEP**] {color="red"}
2. Run ```python3 main.py --stage 'SM_COMPUTATION' --dataset '<dataset_name>' --cc_type '<similarity_measure>'``` for each dataset and similarity measure you are interested in. Make sure all the similarity matrices are in the main directory (not in sub-directories).
3. Run ```python3 main.py --stage 'TFS' --dataset '<dataset_name>' --classification_algo '<classification_algorithm>'``` to perform **Topological Feature Selection + Training Stage** for each specific dataset and classification algorithm you are interested in.
4. Run ```python3 main.py --stage 'IFS' --dataset '<dataset_name>' --classification_algo '<classification_algorithm>'``` to perform **[Infinite Feature Selection](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/iel7/34/4359286/09119168.pdf?casa_token=-I8btXZw0_8AAAAA:VU5GJmZ2V1Zty08uMdx2vi8aixWudPenTdxBcHKEQK2pmHBUpgXS3HjR9wEQJr5ZegzMTVKd) + Training Stage** for each specific dataset and classification algorithm you are interested in.
5. Run ```python3 main.py --stage 'TFS_TEST' --dataset '<dataset_name>' --classification_algo '<classification_algorithm>'``` to perform **Topological Feature Selection + Test Stage** for each specific dataset and classification algorithm you are interested in.
6. Run ```python3 main.py --stage 'IFS_TEST' --dataset '<dataset_name>' --classification_algo '<classification_algorithm>'``` to perform **[Infinite Feature Selection](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/iel7/34/4359286/09119168.pdf?casa_token=-I8btXZw0_8AAAAA:VU5GJmZ2V1Zty08uMdx2vi8aixWudPenTdxBcHKEQK2pmHBUpgXS3HjR9wEQJr5ZegzMTVKd) + Test Stage** for each specific dataset and classification algorithm you are interested in.
7. Run ```python3 main.py --stage 'STATISTICAL_TEST' --dataset '<dataset_name>'``` to perform **Statistical Test Stage** for each specific dataset you are interested in.

Once mandatory steps have been executed, the user can try the entire pipeline on the *lung_small* dataset, for which the similarity matrices are already provided.